Hello,
everyone and welcome again to Ardell.
Newer Lesson said Command said command is a substitute command which replaces our
substitute a text with another texts or manipulate your file.
It is a very,
very powerful command.
So what are the few things that said commanders?
It replaces a string enough file with another string.
So our string is a word.
Ah,
sentence text message or any kind off text message inside off your file and that you want
to replace it finds and deletes a line.
So if a line has ABC and you want to get rid of that line in that text file,
well,
you could go in and use the set command and delete that line that contains ABC.
Now,
wait a second,
Imron.
Hey,
why can't I do the same thing when I goto v I and find the line and deleted?
Yes,
you could definitely do that.
But what if you have ah,
file that has,
let's say,
a 1,000,000 lines and in those 1,000,000 lines,
you probably have at least 1000 lines that has ABC.
Are you going to go into the file and delete or place that string one by one you think that
is efficient?
Not at all.
So that's why I said command is so powerful that allows us to manipulate the text inside a
file.
Another example that we'll learn is how to remove empty lines from a file.
If they are more than one empty lines,
how can you get rid off it?
Yes,
of course.
It going back to the same thing that you could go into the V I and D D and remove it.
But again,
this is not productive.
Remove the first line or number of lines in a file to replace tabs.
But space is these air.
The few very few examples offset commands that I'm gonna go over and substitute within V I
editor.
So if you are already in B I and you want to replace a text X y Z or TXT or anything with
another,
um,
text or another word you could also do by going straight into the V I.
But again,
um,
am I,
uh,
negating my statement?
What I said before,
No,
because when you are going to the eye and you you when you look for one word and then you
replace it again it's a manual process.
But there is another way in B I that you could just find that text one time and replaces it
everywhere in one shot.
And there is so much mawr and mawr,
That is,
um,
that said commands has to offer.
So I'm gonna log into my linens machine.
I'm gonna log in as a putty client,
and I will show you a few examples off How Said command works.
Um,
I'm logged in as myself.
I am in my home directory.
Um,
I have a file in my home directory that is called this duelist myself.
Your that is called Seinfeld characters.
So if you do cat on Seinfeld characters,
you will see all these characters off Seinfeld.
Um,
again,
it's just a list off all the characters that played in Seinfeld.
If you do not have that file or if you did not create that file previously,
then go ahead and you could just pause it right here and create that file.
But all those names that I have or if you want to use a different ball,
a different names,
that's fine.
It's just example that I'm gonna be using to explain how said.
Command works.
So I already have this file now The first thing I want to do.
Let's say what if I wanted to replace Ah,
one of the word with a different word.
Let's say I wanted to replace Kenny.
There's a character named Kenny Banya.
How about if I want to replace his name from Kenny to Lenny?
You would use the command said single code s for substitute Kenny with Lenny to slash Lenny
and slash again.
And if you if there are more than one Kenny,
then you could type G because this G is stands for global Every replace the entire file
wherever you have the word Kenny.
So by default,
I always juice G.
You should also get into the habit of G if you want to replace it everywhere.
So you you you close the single coat and then you type the name off the file where you are
trying to replace the board.
Kenny hit,
enter.
And now you will see at the bottom.
It is replaced with Lenny.
Now another thing.
Um,
I do want to mention that this is going to display the change on Lee on the screen.
It is not actually going to make a change in the file.
So if you get out the file,
you will see the name Kenny still there,
but didn't be just replacing Lenny.
Yes,
we did.
But it did not make the change inside the file.
It on Lee makes the change to the screen.
And if you wanted to have that output to another file,
you could do that.
And that change will be reflected in the newer file.
But if you want to make a change to the existing file,
then what do you have to do is you come back to the same command by hitting up arrow key
and you type minus I.
That is to insert the changes into the file the same command and you hit Enter.
Now,
when you do cat Seinfeld characters,
you'll see the name has changed.
Two Lenny permanently.
So this is how you replace Kenny?
Will any and save the file.
Now,
let's see.
What if you,
um,
wants to replace um,
the word Costanza?
So it works the same way.
So you do said substitute Costanza.
And this time you just don't want to replace anything.
You just want to remove that word.
So you just put Costanza and don't put anything in there,
G and the name of the fall characters.
You see any anyone who had the last name?
Constanza That is gone.
She were here.
Frack.
Costanza's going Stell,
Costanza's gone.
Another consents.
I have.
The bottom is gone.
George Costanza is gone.
But again,
this has gone on Lee on the screen.
And if you want to make a changes to the file,
you have to use the minus.
I option.
I don't want to use the minus I option this time because I want to show you how the set
work.
So this way the file won't change.
So just that's just confirmed.
Our file has all the correct names that I want to have them in it.
So it does have it next.
One I wanted to show you is how to find a string off line and remove it.
If you see,
um,
this is the 2nd 1 in our slide,
Find and delete.
So what if I want to delete every line that has the word Seinfeld took for the command to
do that is said Seinfeld.
And this time type de de is to delete any character or any word that comes up the matches
Seinfeld.
That line will be deleted.
So I am not using my eyes.
I option because it will actually see make the changes to my father and save it.
I just want to show you.
So I just I'll just run it and you will see all the lines that had the Seinfeld are gone.
See none off.
This has the word Seinfeld's in it.
So that's how you replace or delete a line that matches a key word or award.
The next thing I wanted to show you is how you could,
um,
remove Mt.
Lines from a file.
So if I have empty line,
let's make them T line.
I'll go into Seinfeld characters and I'm gonna make empty lines.
So I have four empty lines,
right?
I'll just make one empty line right here as well.
Five empty lines.
Now I'm gonna save that file cat Seinfeld characters,
and you will see right here I have five empty lines.
I wanted to get rid of these five empty lines.
The command to do that,
IHS said.
Stash cap caps shows that anything that starts,
which is right above number six and dollar.
Anything that ends but dollar,
meaning nothing.
Then just delete that sign.
Sorry,
Seinfeld characters.
So anything that is starting or anything that is ending has nothing in the middle.
Which is the empty fall,
of course,
right?
So whatever that finds,
please go ahead and delete it.
So hit,
enter and you will see everything is gone.
But now,
if you do Seinfeld character again,
you'll see you'll still have the line.
Why?
Because we did not specify the minus I option,
and I want you to go ahead and specify minus I option.
Do a Seinfeld characters and you'll see all the empty lines are gone.
Now what if I want to remove the first line in our file?
Ah,
I just wanted removed Jerry Seinfeld,
which is the first line off the file.
So I will do,
said coat one D coat.
Close the name of the file and you'll see the first line was searched very sinful.
That is gone now,
of course,
again,
I'm keep saying it is not going to affect our file because we did not use mind's eye option
.
Um,
now what if you want to remove 1st 2 lines will hit up Arrow Key and just type one comma
two,
and it will delete the 1st 2 lines.
That's how you delete 23 or four more lines.
Now what if you have,
um,
tabs in your,
and your file and you want to remove those tabs with spaces?
So if I do V I on Seinfeld characters and instead of,
um,
space is I'll just put tabs,
tabs and tabs Save the file.
You could do cat Seinfeld character.
You see,
three lines have tab.
I wanted to remove all the tabs inside the file with space,
So the command to do that is said substitute slash.
You have to use backslash and T that tells the operating system for the show that this is a
tab.
Anywhere you find Tab,
please remove it with space and apply it globally.
Seinfeld characters,
You see,
um,
cope Didn't like something.
Um,
one second.
Oh,
my mistake.
I used backs last year,
so I have to use force.
Slash is here because this slash right here and this slash right here in the middle right
here is to string that we're trying to replace.
We're trying to replace that string with what would 70 line.
So now that should work.
And there it is.
It did work,
but it is so good not going to impact our file.
I'm gonna use that command of minus I option.
So it will make the change to my file and bring it back to this original content.
Okay,
so now that's how you actually replaced tabs with spaces.
If you want to do the same thing,
replace spaces.
The tabs.
You could do the same thing,
but just switch.
Ah,
backslash tea with the with the second a space holder.
So you move this thing to here so it will remove everywhere that let's say you want.
If you want to try it t and hear any spaces that it's in their please replace it with Tab.
And I have to this year.
Okay,
So I believe sign fell characters.
And there you have all the taps in there.
I did not want to make the changes.
That's why when I was checking it,
it was not coming up anyway.
I wanted to bring it back,
bring it back around the earlier command which is this replaced habit spaces and hit enter
and now do Seinfeld characters,
and you'll see my format is back the way I want.
Okay,
now,
what if I wanted to,
um,
a show on ley lines from 12 to 18 from a file.
So I just wanted to view 12 to 18.
So 123456789 10 11 12.
So I wanted to see all the lines starting with J.
Peterman all the way to the end,
which is the 18th line.
I don't want to view any of these lines.
So for natural use,
the command said again with minus an option 12 from 12 to 18 p is the option that you have
to pick and you hit.
Enter and you will see right here.
It's giving me from line 12 to 18 now.
What if you want to view?
Ah,
the opposite way.
Meaning you want to be everything except line a 12 to 18.
Then you will run.
The command said Now,
don't use minus end Jews 12 18 de this time and Seinfeld characters and you'll seal.
You have all the results from the top except starting line 12 to 18.
Now.
What if you wanted to,
um,
put a put a space in your,
and your file?
Like every name.
There should be a space.
There should be,
Ah,
empty line.
Um,
after each character.
So you will do said just G Seinfeld characters.
And you see,
every line has a space empty line,
then the name empty line,
then the name.
This is how you add it.
But of course,
it's not going to impact our file.
You could you could have that changes by putting in mind's eye option.
Okay.
Now,
um,
what if you wanted to replace,
um um,
like,
let's say,
if I have Seinfeld character and I wanted to replace Seinfeld with s or any other name,
but I do not want to replace number line eight.
So 1234 by 678 I wanted to replace Seinfeld with s except the eighth sign.
Fill.
So you do said single coat.
Do not do eight and substitute Seinfeld with s do it globally.
Seinfeld characters.
Okay,
See it.
Um,
the change one second may see No,
um,
let's see.
So if I just type eight,
just subject sign of A s,
so it is still not doing it.
Am I doing something wrong?
Ah,
yes.
I am doing something wrong.
See,
sometimes just a tiny bit of a mistake Makes a huge difference if you notice there is no
such word.
A sign fled.
I put signed.
Fled.
All right.
It's a good exercise.
Um,
it enter.
You see,
every Seinfeld,
uh,
text award has been changed with s.
But now let's go back to our original question.
I don't want to replace number eight.
Fix my spelling.
Enter and you will see all of them have changed extent except line number eight.
Now,
the last one I talked about substitute while you are in B I editor.
So go ahead and type V I the name of the file.
And now you are India editor.
Now what?
If you wanted to replace every cycle character while you are in B I so you'll do.
Colon percent sign success for substitute slash.
Sign filled to Peter.
Right.
You want to replace every one of them and slash hit,
enter and you'll see every Seinfeld has been replaced with the word Peter.
That's how you make the change while you are nbr editor.
No,
I want you to go ahead and try it out.
I have also,
um,
on article mentioned here in this lesson that you could view that article and try all the
different commands.
Ah,
against said,
command is very powerful if you really know inside out.
So I will encourage you to try many different ways.
Go ahead.
And do,
um,
do your google go online and search for anything that you wanted to do?
What said And I promise you,
every time you will type something,
make sure you type like how to replace a string and said,
command,
make sure you put in said command.
And I'm telling you,
you're gonna find tons of article out of their people again.
Um,
have done amazing job who have helped people.
And you could look at their article and see how things are done.
You could learn on that.
All right,
um,
if you have any question about said command,
you could just simply send me an email or Ah,
message me.
Um all right.
Good luck.